src/content/docs/aws/services/ecr.mdx, before:

---
title: "Elastic Container Registry (ECR)"
description: Get started with Elastic Container Registry (ECR) on LocalStack
tags: ["Base"]
persistence: supported
---

import FeatureCoverage from "../../../../components/feature-coverage/FeatureCoverage";

## Introduction

Elastic Container Registry (ECR) is a fully managed container registry service provided by Amazon Web Services.
ECR enables you to store, manage, and deploy Docker container images to build, store, and deploy containerized applications.
ECR integrates with other AWS services, such as Lambda, ECS, and EKS.

LocalStack allows you to use the ECR APIs in your local environment to build & push Docker images to a local ECR registry.
The supported APIs are available on our [API Coverage section](#api-coverage), which provides information on the extent of ECR's integration with LocalStack.

## Getting started

This guide is designed for users new to Elastic Container Registry and assumes basic knowledge of the AWS CLI and our [`awslocal`](https://github.com/localstack/awscli-local) wrapper script.

Start your LocalStack container using your preferred method.
We will demonstrate how to build and push a Docker image to a local ECR repository.

### Create a Docker image

To get started, create a Docker image for a simple web application that can be used in an ECS task definition.
Create a new file named `Dockerfile` (with no file extension) in your project directory.
This file will contain the instructions for building the Docker image.
Add the following content to the file:

```Dockerfile
FROM public.ecr.aws/docker/library/ubuntu:18.04

# Install dependencies
RUN apt-get update && \
 apt-get -y install apache2

# Install apache and write hello world message
RUN echo 'Hello World!' > /var/www/html/index.html

# Configure apache
RUN echo '. /etc/apache2/envvars' > /root/run_apache.sh && \
 echo 'mkdir -p /var/run/apache2' >> /root/run_apache.sh && \
 echo 'mkdir -p /var/lock/apache2' >> /root/run_apache.sh && \ 
 echo '/usr/sbin/apache2 -D FOREGROUND' >> /root/run_apache.sh && \ 
 chmod 755 /root/run_apache.sh

EXPOSE 80

CMD /root/run_apache.sh
```

You can now build the Docker image from the `Dockerfile` using the `docker CLI:

```bash
docker build -t localstack-ecr-image .
```

You can run the following command to verify that the image was built successfully:

```bash
docker images
```

```bash title="Output"
REPOSITORY                TAG       IMAGE ID       CREATED          SIZE  
..
localstack-ecr-image      latest    38883941b8fa   1 minute ago     185MB
```

### Create an ECR repository

To push the Docker image to ECR, you first need to create a repository.
You can create an ECR repository using the [`CreateRepository`](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/AmazonECR/latest/APIReference/API_CreateRepository.html) API.
Run the following command to create a repository named `localstack-ecr-repository`:

```bash
awslocal ecr create-repository \
    --repository-name localstack-ecr-repository \
    --image-scanning-configuration scanOnPush=true
```

```bash title="Output"
{
    "repository": {
        "repositoryArn": "arn:aws:ecr:us-east-1:000000000000:repository/localstack-ecr-repository",
        "registryId": "000000000000",
        "repositoryName": "localstack-ecr-repository",
        "repositoryUri": "000000000000.dkr.ecr.us-east-1.localhost.localstack.cloud:4566/localstack-ecr-repository",
        "createdAt": "2023-07-24T16:58:36+05:30",
        "imageTagMutability": "MUTABLE",
        "imageScanningConfiguration": {
            "scanOnPush": true
        },
        "encryptionConfiguration": {
            "encryptionType": "AES256"
        }
    }
}
```

You will need the `repositoryUri` value to push the Docker image to the repository.

### Push the Docker image to the repository

To push the Docker image to the repository, you first need to tag the image with the `repositoryUri`.
Run the following command to tag the image:

```bash
docker tag localstack-ecr-image 000000000000.dkr.ecr.us-east-1.localhost.localstack.cloud:4566/localstack-ecr-repository
```

You can now push the image to the repository using the `docker` CLI:

```bash
docker push 000000000000.dkr.ecr.us-east-1.localhost.localstack.cloud:4566/localstack-ecr-repository
```

The image will take a few seconds to push to the repository.
You can run the following command to verify that the image was pushed successfully:

```bash
awslocal ecr list-images --repository-name localstack-ecr-repository
```

```bash title="Output"
{
    "imageIds": [
        {
            "imageDigest": "sha256:1cbc853c42983362817b5eecac80b1389c0a5cf9cfd1e711d9d0a1f5a7a36d43",
            "imageTag": "latest"
        }
    ]
}
```

## Resource Browser

The LocalStack Web Application provides a Resource Browser for managing ECR repositories and images.
You can access the Resource Browser by opening the LocalStack Web Application in your browser, navigating to the **Resources** section, and then clicking on **ECR** under the **Compute** section.

![ECR Resource Browser](/images/aws/ecr-resource-browser.png)

The Resource Browser allows you to perform the following actions:

- **Create repository**: Create a new ECR repository by clicking the **Create** button, and specify the **Registry Id**, **Repository Name**, **Tags**, and other options.
- **View repository**: View the details of an ECR repository by clicking on the repository name.
You can also view the push commands to push an image to the repository by clicking the **View Push Commands** button.
- **Delete repository**: Delete an ECR repository by selecting the ECR repository, clicking the **Actions** button, and then clicking **Remove Selected**.

## Examples

The following code snippets and sample applications provide practical examples of how to use ECR in LocalStack for various use cases:

- [Amazon RDS initialization using CDK, Lambda, ECR, and Secrets Manager](https://github.com/localstack/amazon-rds-init-cdk)
- [Lambda Container Images with ECR](https://github.com/localstack/localstack-pro-samples/tree/master/lambda-container-image)
- [Pushing Docker images to ECR and running them locally on ECS](https://github.com/localstack/localstack-pro-samples/tree/master/ecs-ecr-container-app)

## API Coverage

<FeatureCoverage service="ecr" client:load />

Commit message:

add ecr endpoint strategy docs

src/content/docs/aws/services/ecr.mdx, after:

---
title: "Elastic Container Registry (ECR)"
description: Get started with Elastic Container Registry (ECR) on LocalStack
tags: ["Base"]
persistence: supported
---

import FeatureCoverage from "../../../../components/feature-coverage/FeatureCoverage";

## Introduction

Elastic Container Registry (ECR) is a fully managed container registry service provided by Amazon Web Services.
ECR enables you to store, manage, and deploy Docker container images to build, store, and deploy containerized applications.
ECR integrates with other AWS services, such as Lambda, ECS, and EKS.

LocalStack allows you to use the ECR APIs in your local environment to build & push Docker images to a local ECR registry.
The supported APIs are available on our [API Coverage section](#api-coverage), which provides information on the extent of ECR's integration with LocalStack.

## Getting started

This guide is designed for users new to Elastic Container Registry and assumes basic knowledge of the AWS CLI and our [`awslocal`](https://github.com/localstack/awscli-local) wrapper script.

Start your LocalStack container using your preferred method.
We will demonstrate how to build and push a Docker image to a local ECR repository.

### Create a Docker image

To get started, create a Docker image for a simple web application that can be used in an ECS task definition.
Create a new file named `Dockerfile` (with no file extension) in your project directory.
This file will contain the instructions for building the Docker image.
Add the following content to the file:

```Dockerfile
FROM public.ecr.aws/docker/library/ubuntu:18.04

# Install dependencies
RUN apt-get update && \
 apt-get -y install apache2

# Install apache and write hello world message
RUN echo 'Hello World!' > /var/www/html/index.html

# Configure apache
RUN echo '. /etc/apache2/envvars' > /root/run_apache.sh && \
 echo 'mkdir -p /var/run/apache2' >> /root/run_apache.sh && \
 echo 'mkdir -p /var/lock/apache2' >> /root/run_apache.sh && \ 
 echo '/usr/sbin/apache2 -D FOREGROUND' >> /root/run_apache.sh && \ 
 chmod 755 /root/run_apache.sh

EXPOSE 80

CMD /root/run_apache.sh
```

You can now build the Docker image from the `Dockerfile` using the `docker CLI:

```bash
docker build -t localstack-ecr-image .
```

You can run the following command to verify that the image was built successfully:

```bash
docker images
```

```bash title="Output"
REPOSITORY                TAG       IMAGE ID       CREATED          SIZE  
..
localstack-ecr-image      latest    38883941b8fa   1 minute ago     185MB
```

### Create an ECR repository

To push the Docker image to ECR, you first need to create a repository.
You can create an ECR repository using the [`CreateRepository`](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/AmazonECR/latest/APIReference/API_CreateRepository.html) API.
Run the following command to create a repository named `localstack-ecr-repository`:

```bash
awslocal ecr create-repository \
    --repository-name localstack-ecr-repository \
    --image-scanning-configuration scanOnPush=true
```

```bash title="Output"
{
    "repository": {
        "repositoryArn": "arn:aws:ecr:us-east-1:000000000000:repository/localstack-ecr-repository",
        "registryId": "000000000000",
        "repositoryName": "localstack-ecr-repository",
        "repositoryUri": "000000000000.dkr.ecr.us-east-1.localhost.localstack.cloud:4566/localstack-ecr-repository",
        "createdAt": "2023-07-24T16:58:36+05:30",
        "imageTagMutability": "MUTABLE",
        "imageScanningConfiguration": {
            "scanOnPush": true
        },
        "encryptionConfiguration": {
            "encryptionType": "AES256"
        }
    }
}
```

You will need the `repositoryUri` value to push the Docker image to the repository.

### Push the Docker image to the repository

To push the Docker image to the repository, you first need to tag the image with the `repositoryUri`.
Run the following command to tag the image:

```bash
docker tag localstack-ecr-image 000000000000.dkr.ecr.us-east-1.localhost.localstack.cloud:4566/localstack-ecr-repository
```

You can now push the image to the repository using the `docker` CLI:

```bash
docker push 000000000000.dkr.ecr.us-east-1.localhost.localstack.cloud:4566/localstack-ecr-repository
```

The image will take a few seconds to push to the repository.
You can run the following command to verify that the image was pushed successfully:

```bash
awslocal ecr list-images --repository-name localstack-ecr-repository
```

```bash title="Output"
{
    "imageIds": [
        {
            "imageDigest": "sha256:1cbc853c42983362817b5eecac80b1389c0a5cf9cfd1e711d9d0a1f5a7a36d43",
            "imageTag": "latest"
        }
    ]
}
```

## Endpoint Strategy

The `ECR_ENDPOINT_STRATEGY` configuration variable in LocalStack determines how the endpoints for ECR repositories are constructed. The different values for `ECR_ENDPOINT_STRATEGY` are:

- `ECR_ENDPOINT_STRATEGY=domain`: Uses a domain-based approach for the repository URIs. In this case, the URI includes the AWS account ID and the region, similar to how it would appear in a real AWS environment.
   For example:
   ```bash
   "repositoryUri": "000000000000.dkr.ecr.us-east-1.localhost.localstack.cloud:4566/lambda-ecr-repo"
   ```
   This mimics the structure of real AWS ECR URIs, which can help ensure compatibility with tools and scripts that expect this format.
- `ECR_ENDPOINT_STRATEGY=off`: This strategy disables the domain-based structure and uses a simpler, direct approach. The repository URI is more straightforward and does not include the account ID or region.
   For example:
   ```bash
   "repositoryUri": "localhost.localstack.cloud:4510/lambda-ecr-repo"
   ```
   This can simplify configurations and reduce potential issues with domain resolution.

If you are experiencing issues with domain name resolution or formatting, switching from `domain` to `off` will likely resolve the problem by simplifying the repository URI and avoiding potential complications.

## Resource Browser

The LocalStack Web Application provides a Resource Browser for managing ECR repositories and images.
You can access the Resource Browser by opening the LocalStack Web Application in your browser, navigating to the **Resources** section, and then clicking on **ECR** under the **Compute** section.

![ECR Resource Browser](/images/aws/ecr-resource-browser.png)

The Resource Browser allows you to perform the following actions:

- **Create repository**: Create a new ECR repository by clicking the **Create** button, and specify the **Registry Id**, **Repository Name**, **Tags**, and other options.
- **View repository**: View the details of an ECR repository by clicking on the repository name.
You can also view the push commands to push an image to the repository by clicking the **View Push Commands** button.
- **Delete repository**: Delete an ECR repository by selecting the ECR repository, clicking the **Actions** button, and then clicking **Remove Selected**.

## Examples

The following code snippets and sample applications provide practical examples of how to use ECR in LocalStack for various use cases:

- [Amazon RDS initialization using CDK, Lambda, ECR, and Secrets Manager](https://github.com/localstack/amazon-rds-init-cdk)
- [Lambda Container Images with ECR](https://github.com/localstack/localstack-pro-samples/tree/master/lambda-container-image)
- [Pushing Docker images to ECR and running them locally on ECS](https://github.com/localstack/localstack-pro-samples/tree/master/ecs-ecr-container-app)

## API Coverage

<FeatureCoverage service="ecr" client:load />
