src/content/docs/aws/services/glue.mdx, before:

---
title: Glue
description: Get started with Glue on LocalStack
tags: ["Ultimate"]
---

import FeatureCoverage from "../../../../components/feature-coverage/FeatureCoverage";

## Introduction

The Glue API in LocalStack Pro allows you to run ETL (Extract-Transform-Load) jobs locally, maintaining table metadata in the local Glue data catalog, and using the Spark ecosystem (PySpark/Scala) to run data processing workflows.

LocalStack allows you to use the Glue APIs in your local environment.
The supported APIs are available on our [API Coverage section](#api-coverage), which provides information on the extent of Glue's integration with LocalStack.

:::note
LocalStack now includes a container-based Glue Job executor, enabling Glue jobs to run within a Docker environment.
Previously, LocalStack relied on a pre-packaged binary that included Spark and other required components.
The new executor leverages the `aws-glue-libs` Docker image, provides better production parity, faster startup times, and more reliable execution.

Key enhancements include:

- Running Glue jobs inside Docker containers
- Providing isolated execution environments per job
- Executing multiple jobs in parallel
- Ensuring correct versioning of Spark, Hadoop, Python, Java, and related libraries
- Improving startup times and offline execution support

To use it, set `GLUE_JOB_EXECUTOR=docker` and `GLUE_JOB_EXECUTOR_PROVIDER=v2` in your LocalStack configuration.
The new executor additionally deprecates older versions of Glue (`0.9`, `1.0`, `2.0`).
:::

## Getting started

This guide is designed for users new to Glue and assumes basic knowledge of the AWS CLI and our [`awslocal`](https://github.com/localstack/awscli-local) wrapper script.

Start your LocalStack container using your preferred method.
We will demonstrate how to create databases and table metadata in Glue, run Glue ETL jobs, import databases from Athena, and run Glue Crawlers with the AWS CLI.

:::note
In order to run Glue jobs, some additional dependencies have to be fetched from the network, including a Docker image of approximately 1.5GB which includes Spark, Presto, Hive and other tools.
These dependencies are automatically fetched when you start up the service, so please make sure you're on a decent internet connection when pulling the dependencies for the first time.
:::

### Creating Databases and Table Metadata

The commands below illustrate the creation of some very basic entries (databases, tables) in the Glue data catalog:

```bash
awslocal glue create-database --database-input '{"Name":"db1"}'
awslocal glue create-table --database db1 --table-input '{"Name":"table1"}'
awslocal glue get-tables --database db1
```

```bash title="Output"
{
    "TableList": [
        {
            "Name": "table1",
            "DatabaseName": "db1"
        }
    ]
}
```

### Running Scripts with Scala and PySpark

Create a new PySpark script named `job.py` with the following code:

```python showshowLineNumbers
from pyspark.sql import SparkSession

def init_spark():
   spark = SparkSession.builder.appName("HelloWorld").getOrCreate()
   sc = spark.sparkContext
   return spark,sc

def main():
   spark,sc = init_spark()
   nums = sc.parallelize([1,2,3,4])
   print(nums.map(lambda x: x*x).collect())


if __name__ == '__main__':
   main()
```

You can now copy the script to an S3 bucket:

```bash
awslocal s3 mb s3://glue-test
awslocal s3 cp job.py s3://glue-test/job.py
```

Next, you can create a job definition:

```bash
awslocal glue create-job \
    --name job1 \
    --role arn:aws:iam::000000000000:role/glue-role \
    --command '{"Name": "pythonshell", "ScriptLocation": "s3://glue-test/job.py"}'
```

You can finally start the job execution:

```bash
awslocal glue start-job-run --job-name job1
```

The returned `JobRunId` can be used to query the status job the job execution, until it becomes `SUCCEEDED`:

```bash
awslocal glue get-job-run --job-name job1 --run-id <JobRunId>
```

```bash title="Output"
{
    "JobRun": {
        "Id": "733b76d0",
        "Attempt": 1,
        "JobRunState": "SUCCEEDED"
    }
}
```

For a more detailed example illustrating how to run a local Glue PySpark job, please refer to this [sample repository](https://github.com/localstack/localstack-pro-samples/tree/master/glue-etl-jobs).

### Importing Athena Tables into Glue Data Catalog

The Glue data catalog is integrated with Athena, and the database/table definitions can be imported via the `import-catalog-to-glue` API.

Assume you are running the following Athena queries to create databases and table definitions:

```sql
CREATE DATABASE db2
CREATE EXTERNAL TABLE db2.table1 (a1 Date, a2 STRING, a3 INT) LOCATION 's3://test/table1'
CREATE EXTERNAL TABLE db2.table2 (a1 Date, a2 STRING, a3 INT) LOCATION 's3://test/table2'
```

Then this command will import these DB/table definitions into the Glue data catalog:

```bash
awslocal glue import-catalog-to-glue
```

Afterwards, the databases and tables will be available in Glue.
You can query the databases with the `get-databases` operation:

```bash
awslocal glue get-databases
```

```bash title="Output"
{
    "DatabaseList": [
        ...
        {
            "Name": "db2",
            "Description": "Database db2 imported from Athena",
            "TargetDatabase": {
                "CatalogId": "000000000000",
                "DatabaseName": "db2"
            }
        }
    ]
}
```

And you can query the databases with the `get-databases` operation:

```bash
awslocal glue get-tables --database-name db2
```

```bash title="Output"
{
    "TableList": [
        {
            "Name": "table1",
            "DatabaseName": "db2",
            "Description": "Table db2.table1 imported from Athena",
            "CreateTime": ...
        },
        {
            "Name": "table2",
            "DatabaseName": "db2",
            "Description": "Table db2.table2 imported from Athena",
            "CreateTime": ...
        }
    ]
}
```

### Crawlers

Glue crawlers allow extracting metadata from structured data sources.

LocalStack Glue currently supports S3 targets (configurable via `S3Targets`), as well as JDBC targets (configurable via `JdbcTargets`).
Support for other target types is in our pipeline and will be added soon.

#### S3 Crawler Example

The example below illustrates crawling tables and partition metadata from S3 buckets.

You can first create an S3 bucket with a couple of items:

```bash
awslocal s3 mb s3://test
printf "1, 2, 3, 4\n5, 6, 7, 8" > /tmp/file.csv
awslocal s3 cp /tmp/file.csv s3://test/table1/year=2021/month=Jan/day=1/file.csv
awslocal s3 cp /tmp/file.csv s3://test/table1/year=2021/month=Jan/day=2/file.csv
awslocal s3 cp /tmp/file.csv s3://test/table1/year=2021/month=Feb/day=1/file.csv
awslocal s3 cp /tmp/file.csv s3://test/table1/year=2021/month=Feb/day=2/file.csv
```

You can then create and trigger the crawler:

```bash
awslocal glue create-database --database-input '{"Name":"db1"}'
awslocal glue create-crawler \
    --name c1 \
    --database-name db1 \
    --role arn:aws:iam::000000000000:role/glue-role \
    --targets '{"S3Targets": [{"Path": "s3://test/table1"}]}'
awslocal glue start-crawler --name c1
```

Finally, you can query the table metadata that has been created by the crawler:

```bash
awslocal glue get-tables --database-name db1
```

```bash title="Output"
{
    "TableList": [{
        "Name": "table1",
        "DatabaseName": "db1",
        "PartitionKeys": [ ... ]
...
```

You can also query the created table partitions:

```bash
awslocal glue get-partitions --database-name db1 --table-name table1
```

```bash title="Output"
{
    "Partitions": [{
        "Values": ["2021", "Jan", "1"],
        "DatabaseName": "db1",
        "TableName": "table1",
...
```

#### JDBC Crawler Example

When using JDBC crawlers, you can point your crawler towards a Redshift database created in LocalStack.

Below is a rough outline of the steps required to get the integration for the JDBC crawler working.
You can first create the local Redshift cluster via:

```bash
awslocal redshift create-cluster \
    --cluster-identifier c1 \
    --node-type dc1.large \
    --master-username test \
    --master-user-password test \
    --db-name db1
```

The output of this command contains the endpoint address of the created Redshift database:

```bash title="Output"
...
    "Endpoint": {
        "Address": "localhost.localstack.cloud",
        "Port": 4510
    },
...
```

Then you can use any JDBC or Postgres client to create a table `mytable1` in the Redshift database, and fill the table with some data.

Next, you're creating the Glue database, the JDBC connection, as well as the crawler:

```bash
awslocal glue create-database --database-input '{"Name":"gluedb1"}'
awslocal glue create-connection --connection-input \
    {"Name":"conn1","ConnectionType":"JDBC","ConnectionProperties":{"USERNAME":"test","PASSWORD":"test","JDBC_CONNECTION_URL":"jdbc:redshift://localhost.localstack.cloud:4510/db1"}}'
awslocal glue create-crawler \
    --name c1 \
    --database-name gluedb1 \
    --role arn:aws:iam::000000000000:role/glue-role \
    --targets '{"JdbcTargets":[{"ConnectionName":"conn1","Path":"db1/%/mytable1"}]}'
awslocal glue start-crawler --name c1
```

Once the crawler has started, you have to wait until the `State` turns to `READY` when querying the current state:

```bash
awslocal glue get-crawler --name c1
```

Once the crawler has finished running and is back in `READY` state, the Glue table within the `gluedb1` DB should have been populated and can be queried via the API.

### Schema Registry

The Glue Schema Registry allows you to centrally discover, control, and evolve data stream schemas.
With the Schema Registry, you can manage and enforce schemas and schema compatibilities in your streaming applications.
It integrates nicely with [Managed Streaming for Kafka (MSK)](../managed-streaming-for-kafka).

:::note
Currently, LocalStack supports the AVRO dataformat for the Glue Schema Registry.
Support for other dataformats will be added in the future.
:::

You can create a schema registry with the following command:

```bash
awslocal glue create-registry --registry-name demo-registry
```

You can create a schema in the newly created registry with the `create-schema` command:

```bash
awslocal glue create-schema --schema-name demo-schema \
    --registry-id RegistryName=demo-registry \
    --data-format AVRO \
    --compatibility FORWARD \
    --schema-definition '{"type":"record","namespace":"Demo","name":"Person","fields":[{"name":"Name","type":"string"}]}'
```

```bash title="Output"
{
    "RegistryName": "demo-registry",
    "RegistryArn": "arn:aws:glue:us-east-1:000000000000:file-registry/demo-registry",
    "SchemaName": "demo-schema",
    "SchemaArn": "arn:aws:glue:us-east-1:000000000000:schema/demo-registry/demo-schema",
    "DataFormat": "AVRO",
    "Compatibility": "FORWARD",
    "SchemaCheckpoint": 1,
    "LatestSchemaVersion": 1,
    "NextSchemaVersion": 2,
    "SchemaStatus": "AVAILABLE",
    "SchemaVersionId": "546d3220-6ab8-452c-bb28-0f1f075f90dd",
    "SchemaVersionStatus": "AVAILABLE"
}
```

Once the schema has been created, you can create a new version:

```bash
awslocal glue register-schema-version \
    --schema-id SchemaName=demo-schema,RegistryName=demo-registry \
    --schema-definition '{"type":"record","namespace":"Demo","name":"Person","fields":[{"name":"Name","type":"string"}, {"name":"Address","type":"string"}]}'
```

```bash title="Output"
{
    "SchemaVersionId": "ee38732b-b299-430d-a88b-4c429d9e1208",
    "VersionNumber": 2,
    "Status": "AVAILABLE"
}
```

You can find a more advanced sample in our [localstack-pro-samples repository on GitHub](https://github.com/localstack/localstack-pro-samples/tree/master/glue-msk-schema-registry), which showcases the integration with AWS MSK and automatic schema registrations (including schema rejections based on the compatibilities).

### Delta Lake Tables

LocalStack Glue supports [Delta Lake](https://delta.io), an open-source storage framework that extends Parquet data files with a file-based transaction log for ACID transactions and scalable metadata handling.

:::note
Please note that Delta Lake tables are only [supported for Glue versions `3.0` and `4.0`](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/glue/latest/dg/aws-glue-programming-etl-format-delta-lake.html).
:::

To illustrate this feature, we take a closer look at a Glue sample job that creates a Delta Lake table, puts some data into it, and then queries data from the table.

First, we define the PySpark job in a file named `job.py` (see below).
The job first creates a database `db1` and table `table1`, then inserts data into the table via both a dataframe and an `INSERT INTO` query, and finally fetches the inserted rows via a `SELECT` query:

```python
from awsglue.context import GlueContext
from pyspark import SparkContext, SparkConf

conf = SparkConf()
conf.set("spark.sql.extensions", "io.delta.sql.DeltaSparkSessionExtension")
conf.set("spark.sql.catalog.spark_catalog", "org.apache.spark.sql.delta.catalog.DeltaCatalog")
glue_context = GlueContext(SparkContext.getOrCreate(conf=conf))
spark = glue_context.spark_session

# create database and table
spark.sql("CREATE DATABASE db1")
spark.sql("CREATE TABLE db1.table1 (name string, key long) USING delta PARTITIONED BY (key) LOCATION 's3a://test/data/'")

# create dataframe and write to table in S3
df = spark.createDataFrame([("test1", 123)], ["name", "key"])
df.write.format("delta").options(path="s3a://test/data/") \
    .mode("append").partitionBy("key").saveAsTable("db1.table1")

# insert data via 'INSERT' query
spark.sql("INSERT INTO db1.table1 (name, key) VALUES ('test2', 456)")

# get and print results, to run assertions further below
result = spark.sql("SELECT * FROM db1.table1")
print("SQL result:", result.toJSON().collect())
```

You can now run the following commands to create and start the Glue job:

```bash
awslocal s3 mb s3://test
awslocal s3 cp job.py s3://test/job.py
awslocal glue create-job --name job1 --role arn:aws:iam::000000000000:role/test \
    --glue-version 4.0 \
    --command '{"Name": "pythonshell", "ScriptLocation": "s3://test/job.py"}'
awslocal glue start-job-run --job-name job1
```

Retrieve the job run ID from the output of the `start-job-run` command.

The execution of the Glue job can take a few moments - once the job has finished executing, you should see a log line with the query results in the LocalStack container logs, similar to the output below:

```bash title="Output"
2023-10-17 12:59:20,088 INFO scheduler.DAGScheduler: Job 15 finished: collect at /private/tmp/script-90e5371e.py:28, took 0,158257 s
SQL result: ['{"name":"test1","key":123}', '{"name":"test2","key":456}']
```

In order to see the logs above, make sure to enable `DEBUG=1` in the LocalStack container environment.
Alternatively, you can also retrieve the job logs programmatically via the CloudWatch Logs API - for example, using the job run ID from the above command.

```bash
awslocal logs get-log-events \
    --log-group-name /aws-glue/jobs/logs-v2 \
    --log-stream-name <JobRunId>
```

## Resource Browser

The LocalStack Web Application provides a Resource Browser for Glue.
You can access the Resource Browser by opening the LocalStack Web Application in your browser, navigating to the **Resources** section, and then clicking on **Glue** under the **Analytics** section.

![Glue Resource Browser](/images/aws/glue-resource-browser.png)

The Resource Browser allows you to perform the following actions:

- **Manage Databases**: Create, view, and delete databases in your Glue catalog **Databases** tab.
- **Manage Tables**: Create, view, edit, and delete tables in a database in your Glue catalog clicking on the **Tables** tab.
- **Manage Connections**: Create, view, and delete Connections in your Glue catalog by clicking on the **Connections** tab.
- **Manage Crawlers**: Create, view, and delete Crawlers in your Glue catalog by clicking on the **Crawlers** tab.
- **Manage Jobs**: Create, view, and delete Jobs in your Glue catalog by clicking on the **Jobs** tab.
- **Manage Schema Registries**: Create, view, and delete Schema Registries in your Glue catalog by clicking on the **Schema Registries** tab.
- **Manage Schemas**: Create, view, and delete Schemas in your Glue catalog by clicking on the **Schemas** tab.

## Examples

The following code snippets and sample applications provide practical examples of how to use Glue in LocalStack for various use cases:

- [localstack-pro-samples/glue-etl-jobs](https://github.com/localstack/localstack-pro-samples/tree/master/glue-etl-jobs)
  - Simple demo application illustrating the use of the Glue API to run local ETL jobs using LocalStack.
- [localstack-pro-samples/glue-redshift-crawler](https://github.com/localstack/localstack-pro-samples/tree/master/glue-redshift-crawler)
  - Simple demo application illustrating the use of AWS Glue Crawler to populate the Glue metastore from a Redshift database.

## Further Reading

The AWS Glue API is a fairly comprehensive service - more details can be found in the official [AWS Glue Developer Guide](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/glue/latest/dg/what-is-glue.html).

## Current Limitations

Support for triggers is currently limited - the basic API endpoints are implemented, but triggers are currently still under development (more details coming soon).

## API Coverage

<FeatureCoverage service="glue" client:load />

Commit message:

add docs on glue k8s executor

src/content/docs/aws/services/glue.mdx, after:

---
title: Glue
description: Get started with Glue on LocalStack
tags: ["Ultimate"]
---

import FeatureCoverage from "../../../../components/feature-coverage/FeatureCoverage";

## Introduction

The Glue API in LocalStack Pro allows you to run ETL (Extract-Transform-Load) jobs locally, maintaining table metadata in the local Glue data catalog, and using the Spark ecosystem (PySpark/Scala) to run data processing workflows.

LocalStack allows you to use the Glue APIs in your local environment.
The supported APIs are available on our [API Coverage section](#api-coverage), which provides information on the extent of Glue's integration with LocalStack.

:::note
LocalStack now includes a container-based Glue Job executor, enabling Glue jobs to run within a Docker environment.
Previously, LocalStack relied on a pre-packaged binary that included Spark and other required components.
The new executor leverages the `aws-glue-libs` Docker image, provides better production parity, faster startup times, and more reliable execution.

Key enhancements include:

- Running Glue jobs inside Docker containers
- Providing isolated execution environments per job
- Executing multiple jobs in parallel
- Ensuring correct versioning of Spark, Hadoop, Python, Java, and related libraries
- Improving startup times and offline execution support
- Ability to run Glue jobs on Kubernetes clusters

To use it, set `GLUE_JOB_EXECUTOR=docker` and `GLUE_JOB_EXECUTOR_PROVIDER=v2` in your LocalStack configuration.
The new executor additionally deprecates older versions of Glue (`0.9`, `1.0`, `2.0`).
:::

## Getting started

This guide is designed for users new to Glue and assumes basic knowledge of the AWS CLI and our [`awslocal`](https://github.com/localstack/awscli-local) wrapper script.

Start your LocalStack container using your preferred method.
We will demonstrate how to create databases and table metadata in Glue, run Glue ETL jobs, import databases from Athena, and run Glue Crawlers with the AWS CLI.

:::note
In order to run Glue jobs, some additional dependencies have to be fetched from the network, including a Docker image of approximately 1.5GB which includes Spark, Presto, Hive and other tools.
These dependencies are automatically fetched when you start up the service, so please make sure you're on a decent internet connection when pulling the dependencies for the first time.
:::

### Creating Databases and Table Metadata

The commands below illustrate the creation of some very basic entries (databases, tables) in the Glue data catalog:

```bash
awslocal glue create-database --database-input '{"Name":"db1"}'
awslocal glue create-table --database db1 --table-input '{"Name":"table1"}'
awslocal glue get-tables --database db1
```

```bash title="Output"
{
    "TableList": [
        {
            "Name": "table1",
            "DatabaseName": "db1"
        }
    ]
}
```

### Running Scripts with Scala and PySpark

Create a new PySpark script named `job.py` with the following code:

```python showshowLineNumbers
from pyspark.sql import SparkSession

def init_spark():
   spark = SparkSession.builder.appName("HelloWorld").getOrCreate()
   sc = spark.sparkContext
   return spark,sc

def main():
   spark,sc = init_spark()
   nums = sc.parallelize([1,2,3,4])
   print(nums.map(lambda x: x*x).collect())


if __name__ == '__main__':
   main()
```

You can now copy the script to an S3 bucket:

```bash
awslocal s3 mb s3://glue-test
awslocal s3 cp job.py s3://glue-test/job.py
```

Next, you can create a job definition:

```bash
awslocal glue create-job \
    --name job1 \
    --role arn:aws:iam::000000000000:role/glue-role \
    --command '{"Name": "pythonshell", "ScriptLocation": "s3://glue-test/job.py"}'
```

You can finally start the job execution:

```bash
awslocal glue start-job-run --job-name job1
```

The returned `JobRunId` can be used to query the status job the job execution, until it becomes `SUCCEEDED`:

```bash
awslocal glue get-job-run --job-name job1 --run-id <JobRunId>
```

```bash title="Output"
{
    "JobRun": {
        "Id": "733b76d0",
        "Attempt": 1,
        "JobRunState": "SUCCEEDED"
    }
}
```

For a more detailed example illustrating how to run a local Glue PySpark job, please refer to this [sample repository](https://github.com/localstack/localstack-pro-samples/tree/master/glue-etl-jobs).

### Importing Athena Tables into Glue Data Catalog

The Glue data catalog is integrated with Athena, and the database/table definitions can be imported via the `import-catalog-to-glue` API.

Assume you are running the following Athena queries to create databases and table definitions:

```sql
CREATE DATABASE db2
CREATE EXTERNAL TABLE db2.table1 (a1 Date, a2 STRING, a3 INT) LOCATION 's3://test/table1'
CREATE EXTERNAL TABLE db2.table2 (a1 Date, a2 STRING, a3 INT) LOCATION 's3://test/table2'
```

Then this command will import these DB/table definitions into the Glue data catalog:

```bash
awslocal glue import-catalog-to-glue
```

Afterwards, the databases and tables will be available in Glue.
You can query the databases with the `get-databases` operation:

```bash
awslocal glue get-databases
```

```bash title="Output"
{
    "DatabaseList": [
        ...
        {
            "Name": "db2",
            "Description": "Database db2 imported from Athena",
            "TargetDatabase": {
                "CatalogId": "000000000000",
                "DatabaseName": "db2"
            }
        }
    ]
}
```

And you can query the databases with the `get-databases` operation:

```bash
awslocal glue get-tables --database-name db2
```

```bash title="Output"
{
    "TableList": [
        {
            "Name": "table1",
            "DatabaseName": "db2",
            "Description": "Table db2.table1 imported from Athena",
            "CreateTime": ...
        },
        {
            "Name": "table2",
            "DatabaseName": "db2",
            "Description": "Table db2.table2 imported from Athena",
            "CreateTime": ...
        }
    ]
}
```

### Crawlers

Glue crawlers allow extracting metadata from structured data sources.

LocalStack Glue currently supports S3 targets (configurable via `S3Targets`), as well as JDBC targets (configurable via `JdbcTargets`).
Support for other target types is in our pipeline and will be added soon.

#### S3 Crawler Example

The example below illustrates crawling tables and partition metadata from S3 buckets.

You can first create an S3 bucket with a couple of items:

```bash
awslocal s3 mb s3://test
printf "1, 2, 3, 4\n5, 6, 7, 8" > /tmp/file.csv
awslocal s3 cp /tmp/file.csv s3://test/table1/year=2021/month=Jan/day=1/file.csv
awslocal s3 cp /tmp/file.csv s3://test/table1/year=2021/month=Jan/day=2/file.csv
awslocal s3 cp /tmp/file.csv s3://test/table1/year=2021/month=Feb/day=1/file.csv
awslocal s3 cp /tmp/file.csv s3://test/table1/year=2021/month=Feb/day=2/file.csv
```

You can then create and trigger the crawler:

```bash
awslocal glue create-database --database-input '{"Name":"db1"}'
awslocal glue create-crawler \
    --name c1 \
    --database-name db1 \
    --role arn:aws:iam::000000000000:role/glue-role \
    --targets '{"S3Targets": [{"Path": "s3://test/table1"}]}'
awslocal glue start-crawler --name c1
```

Finally, you can query the table metadata that has been created by the crawler:

```bash
awslocal glue get-tables --database-name db1
```

```bash title="Output"
{
    "TableList": [{
        "Name": "table1",
        "DatabaseName": "db1",
        "PartitionKeys": [ ... ]
...
```

You can also query the created table partitions:

```bash
awslocal glue get-partitions --database-name db1 --table-name table1
```

```bash title="Output"
{
    "Partitions": [{
        "Values": ["2021", "Jan", "1"],
        "DatabaseName": "db1",
        "TableName": "table1",
...
```

#### JDBC Crawler Example

When using JDBC crawlers, you can point your crawler towards a Redshift database created in LocalStack.

Below is a rough outline of the steps required to get the integration for the JDBC crawler working.
You can first create the local Redshift cluster via:

```bash
awslocal redshift create-cluster \
    --cluster-identifier c1 \
    --node-type dc1.large \
    --master-username test \
    --master-user-password test \
    --db-name db1
```

The output of this command contains the endpoint address of the created Redshift database:

```bash title="Output"
...
    "Endpoint": {
        "Address": "localhost.localstack.cloud",
        "Port": 4510
    },
...
```

Then you can use any JDBC or Postgres client to create a table `mytable1` in the Redshift database, and fill the table with some data.

Next, you're creating the Glue database, the JDBC connection, as well as the crawler:

```bash
awslocal glue create-database --database-input '{"Name":"gluedb1"}'
awslocal glue create-connection --connection-input \
    {"Name":"conn1","ConnectionType":"JDBC","ConnectionProperties":{"USERNAME":"test","PASSWORD":"test","JDBC_CONNECTION_URL":"jdbc:redshift://localhost.localstack.cloud:4510/db1"}}'
awslocal glue create-crawler \
    --name c1 \
    --database-name gluedb1 \
    --role arn:aws:iam::000000000000:role/glue-role \
    --targets '{"JdbcTargets":[{"ConnectionName":"conn1","Path":"db1/%/mytable1"}]}'
awslocal glue start-crawler --name c1
```

Once the crawler has started, you have to wait until the `State` turns to `READY` when querying the current state:

```bash
awslocal glue get-crawler --name c1
```

Once the crawler has finished running and is back in `READY` state, the Glue table within the `gluedb1` DB should have been populated and can be queried via the API.

### Schema Registry

The Glue Schema Registry allows you to centrally discover, control, and evolve data stream schemas.
With the Schema Registry, you can manage and enforce schemas and schema compatibilities in your streaming applications.
It integrates nicely with [Managed Streaming for Kafka (MSK)](../managed-streaming-for-kafka).

:::note
Currently, LocalStack supports the AVRO dataformat for the Glue Schema Registry.
Support for other dataformats will be added in the future.
:::

You can create a schema registry with the following command:

```bash
awslocal glue create-registry --registry-name demo-registry
```

You can create a schema in the newly created registry with the `create-schema` command:

```bash
awslocal glue create-schema --schema-name demo-schema \
    --registry-id RegistryName=demo-registry \
    --data-format AVRO \
    --compatibility FORWARD \
    --schema-definition '{"type":"record","namespace":"Demo","name":"Person","fields":[{"name":"Name","type":"string"}]}'
```

```bash title="Output"
{
    "RegistryName": "demo-registry",
    "RegistryArn": "arn:aws:glue:us-east-1:000000000000:file-registry/demo-registry",
    "SchemaName": "demo-schema",
    "SchemaArn": "arn:aws:glue:us-east-1:000000000000:schema/demo-registry/demo-schema",
    "DataFormat": "AVRO",
    "Compatibility": "FORWARD",
    "SchemaCheckpoint": 1,
    "LatestSchemaVersion": 1,
    "NextSchemaVersion": 2,
    "SchemaStatus": "AVAILABLE",
    "SchemaVersionId": "546d3220-6ab8-452c-bb28-0f1f075f90dd",
    "SchemaVersionStatus": "AVAILABLE"
}
```

Once the schema has been created, you can create a new version:

```bash
awslocal glue register-schema-version \
    --schema-id SchemaName=demo-schema,RegistryName=demo-registry \
    --schema-definition '{"type":"record","namespace":"Demo","name":"Person","fields":[{"name":"Name","type":"string"}, {"name":"Address","type":"string"}]}'
```

```bash title="Output"
{
    "SchemaVersionId": "ee38732b-b299-430d-a88b-4c429d9e1208",
    "VersionNumber": 2,
    "Status": "AVAILABLE"
}
```

You can find a more advanced sample in our [localstack-pro-samples repository on GitHub](https://github.com/localstack/localstack-pro-samples/tree/master/glue-msk-schema-registry), which showcases the integration with AWS MSK and automatic schema registrations (including schema rejections based on the compatibilities).

### Delta Lake Tables

LocalStack Glue supports [Delta Lake](https://delta.io), an open-source storage framework that extends Parquet data files with a file-based transaction log for ACID transactions and scalable metadata handling.

:::note
Please note that Delta Lake tables are only [supported for Glue versions `3.0` and `4.0`](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/glue/latest/dg/aws-glue-programming-etl-format-delta-lake.html).
:::

To illustrate this feature, we take a closer look at a Glue sample job that creates a Delta Lake table, puts some data into it, and then queries data from the table.

First, we define the PySpark job in a file named `job.py` (see below).
The job first creates a database `db1` and table `table1`, then inserts data into the table via both a dataframe and an `INSERT INTO` query, and finally fetches the inserted rows via a `SELECT` query:

```python
from awsglue.context import GlueContext
from pyspark import SparkContext, SparkConf

conf = SparkConf()
conf.set("spark.sql.extensions", "io.delta.sql.DeltaSparkSessionExtension")
conf.set("spark.sql.catalog.spark_catalog", "org.apache.spark.sql.delta.catalog.DeltaCatalog")
glue_context = GlueContext(SparkContext.getOrCreate(conf=conf))
spark = glue_context.spark_session

# create database and table
spark.sql("CREATE DATABASE db1")
spark.sql("CREATE TABLE db1.table1 (name string, key long) USING delta PARTITIONED BY (key) LOCATION 's3a://test/data/'")

# create dataframe and write to table in S3
df = spark.createDataFrame([("test1", 123)], ["name", "key"])
df.write.format("delta").options(path="s3a://test/data/") \
    .mode("append").partitionBy("key").saveAsTable("db1.table1")

# insert data via 'INSERT' query
spark.sql("INSERT INTO db1.table1 (name, key) VALUES ('test2', 456)")

# get and print results, to run assertions further below
result = spark.sql("SELECT * FROM db1.table1")
print("SQL result:", result.toJSON().collect())
```

You can now run the following commands to create and start the Glue job:

```bash
awslocal s3 mb s3://test
awslocal s3 cp job.py s3://test/job.py
awslocal glue create-job --name job1 --role arn:aws:iam::000000000000:role/test \
    --glue-version 4.0 \
    --command '{"Name": "pythonshell", "ScriptLocation": "s3://test/job.py"}'
awslocal glue start-job-run --job-name job1
```

Retrieve the job run ID from the output of the `start-job-run` command.

The execution of the Glue job can take a few moments - once the job has finished executing, you should see a log line with the query results in the LocalStack container logs, similar to the output below:

```bash title="Output"
2023-10-17 12:59:20,088 INFO scheduler.DAGScheduler: Job 15 finished: collect at /private/tmp/script-90e5371e.py:28, took 0,158257 s
SQL result: ['{"name":"test1","key":123}', '{"name":"test2","key":456}']
```

In order to see the logs above, make sure to enable `DEBUG=1` in the LocalStack container environment.
Alternatively, you can also retrieve the job logs programmatically via the CloudWatch Logs API - for example, using the job run ID from the above command.

```bash
awslocal logs get-log-events \
    --log-group-name /aws-glue/jobs/logs-v2 \
    --log-stream-name <JobRunId>
```

## Resource Browser

The LocalStack Web Application provides a Resource Browser for Glue.
You can access the Resource Browser by opening the LocalStack Web Application in your browser, navigating to the **Resources** section, and then clicking on **Glue** under the **Analytics** section.

![Glue Resource Browser](/images/aws/glue-resource-browser.png)

The Resource Browser allows you to perform the following actions:

- **Manage Databases**: Create, view, and delete databases in your Glue catalog **Databases** tab.
- **Manage Tables**: Create, view, edit, and delete tables in a database in your Glue catalog clicking on the **Tables** tab.
- **Manage Connections**: Create, view, and delete Connections in your Glue catalog by clicking on the **Connections** tab.
- **Manage Crawlers**: Create, view, and delete Crawlers in your Glue catalog by clicking on the **Crawlers** tab.
- **Manage Jobs**: Create, view, and delete Jobs in your Glue catalog by clicking on the **Jobs** tab.
- **Manage Schema Registries**: Create, view, and delete Schema Registries in your Glue catalog by clicking on the **Schema Registries** tab.
- **Manage Schemas**: Create, view, and delete Schemas in your Glue catalog by clicking on the **Schemas** tab.

## Examples

The following code snippets and sample applications provide practical examples of how to use Glue in LocalStack for various use cases:

- [localstack-pro-samples/glue-etl-jobs](https://github.com/localstack/localstack-pro-samples/tree/master/glue-etl-jobs)
  - Simple demo application illustrating the use of the Glue API to run local ETL jobs using LocalStack.
- [localstack-pro-samples/glue-redshift-crawler](https://github.com/localstack/localstack-pro-samples/tree/master/glue-redshift-crawler)
  - Simple demo application illustrating the use of AWS Glue Crawler to populate the Glue metastore from a Redshift database.

## Further Reading

The AWS Glue API is a fairly comprehensive service - more details can be found in the official [AWS Glue Developer Guide](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/glue/latest/dg/what-is-glue.html).

## Current Limitations

Support for triggers is currently limited - the basic API endpoints are implemented, but triggers are currently still under development (more details coming soon).

## API Coverage

<FeatureCoverage service="glue" client:load />
