src/content/docs/aws/integrations/index.mdx, before:

---
title: Overview
description: Use your favorite cloud development tools with LocalStack.
template: doc
editUrl: false
---

import SectionCards from '../../../../components/SectionCards.astro';

LocalStack supports a wide range of tools from the cloud development ecosystem.
This section of the documentation covers tools that are officially supported by LocalStack.

## The Cloud Development Ecosystem

Cloud development has many facets and a rich ecosystem of tools to cover them.
Whether you are using Infrastructure-as-Code (IaC) to manage your AWS infrastructure,
or are developing applications using AWS SDKs like boto, LocalStack allows you to run your workflow completely on your local machine.

![Sample of supported tools](/images/aws/integrations-overview.png)

## Integrations

We strive to make the integration of LocalStack into your workflow as seamless as possible.
Sometimes it's as easy as calling one of our wrapper tools, like `awslocal`, a drop-in replacement for the `aws` CLI.
Other times there is a bit of configuration involved.

Here is a list of tools we support, and documentation on how to integrate LocalStack.

<SectionCards 
  basePath="aws/integrations/" 
  customTitles={{
    "app-frameworks": "App Frameworks",
    "aws-native-tools": "AWS Native Tools",
    "aws-sdks": "AWS SDKs",
    "containers": "Containers",
    "continuous-integration": "Continuous Integration",
    "infrastructure-as-code": "Infrastructure as Code",
    "messaging": "Messaging",
    "testing": "Testing",
  }}
/>

Commit message:

Wrote content for empty /Overview pages & improved copy in existing /Overview pages

src/content/docs/aws/integrations/index.mdx, after:

---
title: Overview
description: Use your favorite cloud development Integrations with LocalStack.
template: doc
editUrl: false
---

import SectionCards from '../../../../components/SectionCards.astro';

LocalStack supports a wide range of integrations from the cloud development ecosystem. These integrations make it easy to run your existing AWS workflows locally, without modifying your tooling.

## The Cloud Development Ecosystem

Cloud development spans a broad set of tools and practices. Whether you’re provisioning Infrastructure-as-Code (IaC) with tools like Terraform or CloudFormation, or building applications with AWS SDKs like `boto3` or `aws-sdk-js`, LocalStack helps you bring the entire workflow to your local machine. Get ready to speed up your feedback loops and reduce your cloud dependencies.

![Sample of supported integrations](/images/aws/integrations-overview.png)

## Integrations

We strive to make the integration of LocalStack into your workflow as seamless as possible. 
Sometimes it's as easy as calling one of our wrapper tools, like `awslocal`, a drop-in replacement for the `aws` CLI. Other times, there's a bit of configuration involved.

Here is a list of tool integrations we support, and documentation on how to integrate LocalStack.

<SectionCards 
  basePath="aws/integrations/" 
  customTitles={{
    "app-frameworks": "App Frameworks",
    "aws-native-tools": "AWS Native Tools",
    "aws-sdks": "AWS SDKs",
    "containers": "Containers",
    "continuous-integration": "Continuous Integration",
    "infrastructure-as-code": "Infrastructure as Code",
    "messaging": "Messaging",
    "testing": "Testing",
  }}
/>
